Hello everyone and welcome back to the model evaluation section of the course.
And in this lecture we're going to be discussing the documentation example and basically as documentation
example shows you how to use those evaluator Parambrata builder and then that train validation split
object.
These are specialized objects that allow you to formally set up your train test split later on the course
we actually won't be using such formal syntax.
We'll just do a random split for training sets and test sets.
But you should know how to formalize a parameter grid and train validation split in order to show you
this more formal way of doing things.
And going to jump to the documentation and show you how you can actually find the documentation examples
and then we'll jump to the out and text editor and actually code out these examples.
Let me jump to documentation now and explore it with you.
All right.
Here I am at spark that a patch to the north to find the documentation I'm inferring to come here go
to the latest release some 2.0 version or 2.1 later on come here to programming guides M-L live for
machine learning and where we're going to be looking at is the main guide and L-EB and their model selection
and tuning and this is the section that I want you to basically browse through what this section does
describes how to use M-L lives tooling for tuning machine learning algorithms.
Things such as choosing what parameters are the correct choice and you can do that through things such
as a parameter grid or later on will see also pipelines.
And we want to also check out the built in train validation split tools in order to do a train test
split on our model.
So I encourage you to actually read all of this and just browse through it.
But basically we're going to be doing is understanding how this M-L lib supports model selection through
a train validation split.
There's also a cross-validation model or tool you can use that's very similar to train validation split
except instead of just doing two splits into a training set and a testing set it does a number of splits
so it cross-validation of all the splits.
It's a very simple similar concept to train validation splits.
So once you understand one of them you pretty much understand how to use the other.
Now this train validation split tool and you can click on this and open up in a new link if you want
to explore more.
Require a couple of items one that requires an estimate or some sort of algorithm or a pipeline object
which will work with more later on in the future.
And then it also requires a set of parameter maps and these are parameters to choose from and you are
sometimes called a parameter grid to search over and then it also requires any Valuator object.
And this is the object that's going to light have a metric to measure how well a fitted model does on
some holdout test data set.
OK.
So the reason we're not going to be using train validation is split in this format is because of these
three requirements it requires an estimator cram into maps and evaluators and a lot of times and we're
just trying to learn how to use Skala and SPARC.
We don't want to mess around for a whole parameter grid unfortunately.
To use this train validation of split object you do need a set of parameter maps.
Now that's not to say we're not going to be doing training and test splits later on in the course but
later on the course we're actually going to simplify this by just using a simple random split on train
test.
What train validation split here does is it does the training test and the holdout data set which is
a little different.
As we discussed in the previous lecture but what I encourage you to do is just browse through this read
through it read through cross-validation if you're interested in it.
Basically just that training test split with more folds on your data.
So you set some sort of k value there but scroll down until you come over here to train validations
split.
This is the actual coding example that we're going to code out and text editor and explain how the parameter
grid the train validation split object the fitting the transformation etc. so you can find the full
example code here in the documentation.
But you can also find it in your folder under your zip download.
I'm going to jump to the Adam text editor now and actually code out this example from scratch.
So you can learn how to use it.
Let's jump to Adam text editor.
OK so here am I opened up Adam text editor and under the machine learning folder there's a folder called
Motl underscore evaluation and they call the script we're going to be working through is this doc model
evil acts and this is the documentation example for model evaluation.
Now instead of just walking through this I'm actually going to code it out so you can get a better idea
of how this whole actually works.
So let's.
Right click here and say new file and I'm going to just type in X Skala enter and then start typing
stuff out.
All right.
First thing I want to do is are imports and what we have to do is import org Apache Sparke M-L and then
we need an evaluator in order to use the parameter grid builder in the train validation object.
We need evaluator we need evaluators So we want to say from Mehldau evaluation dot and then the pest
depending on whether using classification algorithm regression algorithm etc. you're going to need a
specific evaluator.
Are examples going to use the regression evaluator.
Since we're going to show how to do all these things on a regression task since we just learn about
regression with Skala and Sparke then we need to actually import the model itself.
Say import or Apache that SPARC M-L and then from the regression family will say linear regression.
And finally we need to actually import the parameter grid build there from the train validation split
objects.
So I'm going to say import or Petchey that spark M-L tuning loops tuning and then some importing multiple
things.
I can just use these curly brackets.
I want Paramo great builder and then I also want the train validation split object.
OK.
So so far that's what I have.
Up next I want to prepared the training and test data in this case.
We're essentially going to redo the examples to show in the regression section in this particular documentation
example.
I'm going to show the documentation sample linear regression data text so I will just say Val data is
equal to spark Hoopes spark the read format and then I'm going to be using this lib SVM data and you
can use the data that's in the regression folder.
So if you go back to the regression folder remembered that you had this sample underscore at linear
regression underscore data that text.
That's exactly the same text file We're going to be working with.
So you've actually already done this before going back to X Scala.
I will say load and then I'll just type and sample underscore linear regression underscore data dot
cxi and then I want to split that up.
So I want to prepare the training and test data.
So this is our train test splits and that looks like this.
I say Val and I create an array here and I'm basically going to be unpacking the results into an array
where one item is the training set and the other item is a test set.
And then I just call my data and offer this data Frank object I can call random split so you can see
that data frames in Skala and Sparke really kept in mind when you're dealing with machine learning so
much so that a random split method is actually built into these data frames so I say data that random
split noticed something as capitalized.
And then as arguments here are parameters I an array and this array is going to have two numbers in
it as essentially percentages.
The percent I want for training and the I want for test.
So I'm going to do a 0.9 0.1 train test split.
Now what this basically means is that 90 percent of my data is going to be training data and 10 percent
of my data is going to be test data and you should make sure that those two numbers essentially add
up to one.
And if you want as an additional argument you can set a seed.
So this is just a random seed value.
So for instance I can just put one two three four five or really any integer number you want and that
essentially sets a random seed for this random split.
Remember since this split is happening random for different rows.
If you want your results to match mine exactly.
You may want to provide an actual seed if I happened to provide a seed number for you to follow.
Usually it's not necessary to provide a seed but it's really up to you the pending on whether you're
going to be passing this code along to colleagues and they'll be nice to compare results on the exact
same random split of data.
All right let's just explore the state so we can say data print schema.
I'm going to save this open up a terminal and then it will open up Sparke cells.
I will say Sparke bash shell and hit enter.
Load that up.
OK so that slowed it up.
Now let's load that file.
I'll say call and load and then start Skala enter.
And we should see the scheme a printout.
All right so the schema printed out and notice that we have it in our classic format label and features.
Now this is the example text data.
So it's already conveniently in that format.
So let's delete this.
And now let's show you how to actually set up the parameter grid so we can use parameter grid builder
or program grid builder to construct a grid of parameters to search over.
And in this case we're going to add a grid of parameters for the linear regression object and train
validation split is going to try all the combinations of values and determine the best model using the
evaluator that we imported.
So I will say Velle Parama grid is equal to a new program great builder object.
And then I say add a grid and I passen a linear regression model so LR In order to do that let's actually
build out that model.
So after the train split going to add a new line here I will say Val L-R is equal to a new linear regression
object so has this new linear regression object.
And then I can actually add it to the grid the parameter.
So I'm saying add grid L-R and then I call off L.R. ready program.
So ready Grecian parameters.
And in this case we can say something like array 0.1 and zero point zero one.
And basically we're going to be doing is calling different parameters they can add to a linear regression
object.
And if you want an actual list of all the parameters you can add to a linear regression object.
Basically what I mean by that is figuring out well what codes can I call off of l r.
You can check that out in the documentation.
So what you do is you just say in a general sense add a grid call your model whatever you happen to
call it.
LR dot and then whatever parameter you want to say so in this case we can also do something like intercept.
Or you could say something like add a grid.
And these are just the exact same choices for parameters done in the actual documentation example.
So for instance L-R dot elastic net program and I can passen an array of value here.
So I will say array.
And there's no easy way to choose the actual value.
The For instance in the documentation example they choose three values here.
It will say zero point zero for the elastic net parameter 0.5 and then 1.0 and then at the end of all
this you actually build this.
So let's actually make sure this all works.
I'm going to save this and run this file again so the X that Skala.
And notice here.
Now I have this parameter grid so I can see here.
And the reason I had just intercept with no array is because the intercept is an actual boolean.
So it's true.
Or if you scroll up here vs we can see less Cygnet actually has these numbers.
So if I wanted to fit the intercept I'd have to add that in.
But it doesn't take an array because we're not searching for an array of actual values.
Now if I type LR here dots and then hit tab I should be able to see the actual some of the actual parameters
here.
So for example there's an elastic net program I can explain Paramor extract the parameter map and I
can do set feature columns that fit in their separate label column.
Max adorations prediction column the regulates regularisation parameters for things such as Lasser regularization
etc..
So if you really want to know all of this you really have to just take the time and read through the
documentation.
But right now we'll just keep things simple by following along with the documentation example.
But the basic premise of this is you say new program great builder and you say Dot add grid call your
model call whatever parameter you want and if you actually want to explore everything that's available
to you you can just say L.R. dot tab and you should see a bunch of options.
Now keep in mind that all of these are parameters.
A lot of them are just methods such as Save or set.
But a lot of these are parameters and you should be able to just check the documentation and see which
ones are parameters.
And then if it's a parameter it takes in an American value you set an array of the different values
you want to test over is the actual grid.
And then what it ends up doing is if we check this out again this grid site I'm going to type here.
Program grid enter.
It essentially makes a grid of all the possible combinations.
So this is 1.0 true or 0.1 0.5 True's 3.0 1 etc..
So we have all these possible combinations and eventually just say dot dot dot because it doesn't want
to put out the entire grid there.
But that's how we perform grid object works.
Then up next you can just run the train validation split.
So here WIPs back in our script I'm going to say Val train revalidation split is equal to a new train
validation split object and then I will say set estimator an estimator we actually set is the model
itself.
So the estimators just another way of saying machine learning algorithm.
So in this case I just pasan L-R.
And then I need to set my evaluator and I do that with set evaluator.
So I have set the estimator and I need to set the evaluator.
Since Max role model is a regression model and we're going to need to set the regression evaluator.
And in this case I can just call it here.
New regression evaluator and then off of this I can say set and make sure I actually close Princie here.
And here I can say set estimator program maps.
So this is the parameter mappings I want to set.
I can just say Parama grid which was the one we just created.
And then finally for the training set test set versus the whole that set I say set train ratio.
And in this case will fall the documentation and put 0.8.
So this is what's going to allow us to do that holdout testing.
So that train validation is split object.
So I call a new training validation split object.
I set the estimator basically set the actual model set the evaluator and it needs to line up with a
type of model you're using.
So regression model calls for a regression evaluator classification is a classification evaluator etc..
Then I set the estimator parameter grid so set S-meter pram mappings and then I set the train ratio
which is basically what are you going to use for training and testing versus what you're going to use
for the holdout set.
All right.
And then once we have that we can actually run the train validation split and it will automatically
choose the best set of parameters.
And this is going to look really similar to a normal testing so say model train of validation splits
that fit and then pass the training set and then finally we can make predictions on the test data.
So the model is that models the combination parameters that perform the best.
So I will say model the transform the test and then I can select off these results the features the
label and then the prediction and then finally I'm going to just show all that and we can explore a
lot of these objects later on in the actual Sparke show.
So let me save that.
Let's load it up and run it and make sure we typed in everything correctly.
Right so that finished running.
Let me expand on this and actually show it to you.
So here we can see the features label and prediction.
And this looks really similar to what we've seen in the past except now we're running it with a parameter
grid where the model is the actual best fit.
So if I say model dots and then hit tab I can see that I can actually call the best model so I can say
best model eps and this is going to basically return back a linear regression object that represents
that best model in case I ever want to do stuff with it.
And then I can get things to extract a parameter mapping get the estimator itself get the estimated
parameter mapping.
So things such as model estimator Coram maps.
And this is going to return back the actual parameter mapping that it was trained with.
In case you ever want to see that information back straight from the model.
All right.
So I know we went through a lot here.
And again I really recommend that you take the time to read the documentation page so we first showed.
But let me break down everything we just did in this documentation example and then we're going to revisit
the housing data again following the formatting of parameter grid and train validation split.
So you have to do is you need basically three main things you need some sort of evaluator that you grab
from revaluation.
You need some sort of model which in this case we're grabbing it from regression but it can be from
anything else such as classification.
And then you need these tuning objects which is your parameter great builder and your train validation
split.
You read in your data you do a random split on your data to get it into a training set and a testing
set.
And in most cases throughout the course we're actually just going to stop here.
So you'll notice in the classification section this is where we will just stop and we'll go straight
into actually train the model.
But if you want to continue or something such as the hold out data set this is where Paramo grade builder
and train validation split come into play.
You can call a linear regression object and then you call a Parambrata builder and then you add grids
to it and the grids.
It's just a parameter and the pending what type information that parameter gets in array of numerical
values or to actually just say something like Yes fit the entire set for this linear regression model
etc..
And if you want to know more about these for the theoretical understanding and the statistical information
I suggest you do the reading in introduction to testicle learning on these specific algorithms.
And if you want the actual parameters or are available to you then you have to basically just look up
this model in the documentation and see what parameters are available to you.
Or you can click tab as I showed earlier in the spark shell and see the options yourself and then you
need to say train validation split so you create a new train validation split object you pass in your
s later.
Remember the estimators just the actual model.
Then you set your evaluator remember the evaluator needs to match the type of model or you type of estimator
you're using.
And then after that you pass in the estimator parameter mapping which is just the grids we created before.
And then finally you set the train ratio of your training and testing set versus the actual hold out
data set.
Then finally you take your model and run train invalidations split as if it was just a normal inner
regression object.
You fit it to your training data and then you transform your test data and you can grab information
off of it such as the features the label in the prediction and show it or you can say this to another
object and explore it that way.
All right.
Hope you enjoyed this lecture.
I know it's quite a lot.
And I know it's a little complicated skull spark.
Basically you're paying a price for its ability to quickly be paralyzed two more computers later on
when we show you things such as working at this on Amazon Web Services.
But it is worth the extra effort of looking stuff in the documentation because we're essentially just
a few lines of code here.
We've made something that can be run on a multiple computer system.
OK.
Thanks Ron.
And I will see at the next lecture.